now that it's 2025 I'm going to show you
some of the web design trends that are
emerging as well as some which we're
going to leave in the past the First new
web design trend is called anti-design
it's one that breaks all conventions by
not really adhering to any specific
rules it's brought on board by new
generation of web designers that are
trying to stand out and therefore
creating their own new Styles anti
design works really well for things like
posters where it can stand out due to
its unique nature when attempted on
websites you can experiment in New and
creative ways where you add motion to a
static image or have an image so large
that you can't ignore it and when taken
to the extreme you end up with websites
like this which weren't possible in the
past due to the complexity of coding
something like this but now you get no
code tools that allow you to pretty much
create anything that's in your
imagination this can be both a good
thing and a bad thing the second web
design trend is experimental navigation
this is because we're all used to and
bored of the traditional Navar that sits
at the top of a website or even a
hamburger menu people are finding new
and interesting ways to create
navigation that is outside of the box
let's take a look at a few this website
from Skyvia has one of the best
navigation systems I've seen in my life
it is one that always keeps you on the
same page because the navigation is done
through this zoom in and zoom out effect
it makes it feel like this website is
one giant canvas what's more is that I
don't have to just zoom in and out of
different sections I can actually just
move about out the different pages
manually by panning left and right
experimental navigation like this just
makes me want to explore the website a
lot more this web design from the Canal
Street Market is another example of
navigation done right you can
immediately see the pages almost like
folds that you can unfold as you click
through and it never feels like you
actually leave the website as you
navigate a two different pages the third
design Trend that is emerging more and
more now is scrolling Design This is
where you're adding a little bit of of
parallx or animation as part of a scroll
event and a lot of websites seem to be
doing this with an animated sequence of
text flying into a screen or images
coming into display or even creative
ways to use 3D elements here's one
example I like from The Big Picture
company this web design has a little bit
of 3D happening alongside the scroll
event which takes you through to this
section here with 3D letters flying out
then we get to the second part of the
site which does a horizontal scroll
having 3D letter come into place and
move about as I'm navigating through
2025 brings what I'm going to coin as
macro animations we've seen micro
animations in the past animations on
small buttons or little interactions but
macro animations are ones that appear on
the entire page and they respond to
things like your mouse movement as well
as your scroll where the entire website
feels like it's both alive and reacting
to anything that you're doing and you'll
often find websites like this combining
everything from scroll jacking to Mouse
movement animation to 3D elements all
the way throughout the entire site
personally I prefer a more subtle
approach where not everything is moving
on the page and it's may be a little bit
slower so that it's not overwhelming for
me but it still makes the page feel like
there's additional content that's just
Out Of Reach the fifth web design trend
is called chatbot design because of the
rise of AI every website now is looking
to add their own AI chatbot to their
site and while I don't think it's
definitely necessary I do see and
recognize that this isn't emerging
design Trend that's all over dribble so
what you'll start seeing is more and
more user interfaces that incorporate AI
elements such as voice or text or chat
into their website designs what I find
interesting about this 2025 design
aesthetic is that every website will be
slightly different having its own unique
take on incorporating AI integration
into its own Services sometimes this
could be in the form of a small floating
bar that allows you to put in different
prompts or complete different tasks or
even have quick prompt actions where an
AI can give you recommendations other
times it could be just in the way that
an app is designed where rather than
just having a basic chat dialogue you
can have something a little bit more
interesting number six are smart videos
these are pieces of media that replace
traditional images in areas like feature
sections so rather than a user viewing
an image of a feature they get to see a
small video of about 10 seconds of what
that feature actually looks like and
I've gotten a chance to see some really
good examples of this they can sometimes
be videos that play when you scroll into
the frame other times they can be Pages
filled with videos that keep you
watching but personally I think the best
execution of smart videos are very
subtle ones that don't actually start
until you scroll over them and they're
very relevant to the kind of things that
you're looking at such as this one from
hulie which has implemented it in a
number of areas on their website number
seven is cursor animation in the past we
simply changed the image of the cursor
but now we're having C cursor movement
actually animate different parts of a
website in creative ways and I find this
fascinating because it can bring to life
a websites in a way that hasn't been
possible in the past like this one here
which adds a little bit of oil painting
to a website as you navigate through
different types of scenes another
example of this trend is having elements
on the page that a cursor can interact
with move about and control like this
one here from the stripe dodev website
where you have different Windows here
that you can drag and move about as well
as this table and checklist that feels
like you're almost in a custom operating
system which you get to control and
navigate through while 2025 brings new
web design Trends there are few that
haven't gone away such as custom
illustrations this is when you mix a
little bit of handdrawn art together
with a website like this example from
London therapy which uses a lot of
custom illustrations and handdrawn
colored items to make the website feel
very open clear and welcoming here's
another example of custom illustrations
but with a little bit of Animation where
they're using those illustrations around
the edges of the page or to even swap
from one section of the page to another
or just to have overlaid over text or
pictures that give it a little bit of a
more artistic flare and the benefit of
something like this is that you get a
little bit more of a human touch
whenever you're viewing Pages like this
rather than a lot of the lifeless AI
generated content you see on the
internet these days number nine is full
screen headers or hero sections because
First Impressions matter while full
screen websites on anything new they are
the type that make you feel like you're
not actually scrolling through the page
but the page is remaining on your screen
the whole time and you're just getting
to see how elements interact on it since
websites have a lot of content these
days full screen websites often might
have things like sliders so that you can
see multiple bits of the website in one
go rather than scrolling up or down
another good execution of this is just
using a full screen video this one
really did well because of the saturated
colors that made the text stand out
quite well another example of this is by
off menu here where they've created a
site that lets you always stay on the
main full screen section while scrolling
through different types of elements or
case studies that they've created on the
right side here then you can click
through and preview some of the artwork
from that case study all without ever
leaving the main site the 10th web
design trend for 2025 is a Bento Grid or
Bento why because it's worked in the
past present and likely in the future so
it's probably not going away anytime
soon the vento grid design continues to
Showcase bits of information in visually
appealing ways in a mosaic type of grid
structure that is being adopted by
company's large and small such as this
example from Walmart where they're using
a Bento grid for their homepage or this
slightly simpler example from giving
Which is using Bento UI alongside
different colors images and a little bit
of Animation to make this SE look really
appealing and with how easy it is to do
this with CSS grids now as well as no
code tools it's definitely worth trying
Bento UI for your next website number 11
is expressive topography or fonts
because these just make a website look
unique and special expressive fonts
aren't just using fonts outside of the
classics like Roboto but also in the way
that the fonts are used such as in this
example in the way that they're using
full caps together with outlines to
create what looks like a unique Style
for this design where it is almost like
you're inside of a comic book adding
some expression to fonts is also an
example of this like in this example
here where using a few emojis animated
sequences and strokes can all work to
help make a font look more fresh even if
it's something that we're already used
to other times having unique fonts that
fit the style and theme of a product is
great like this one from ancient drinks
which is using a Nordic like font and
what it does is make this website feel
like you're taking a step back into
history when you're viewing and reading
some of the text that has that
traditional type topography number 12 is
color trends because just like in
fashion or clothing color plays a big
part in the psychology and how a website
looks and feels we're seeing a lot of
new things emerge in terms of how
websites now utilize color as well as
panon new color of the year for 2025 the
color of the year is mocha moous it's
this brown like color that looks earthy
and wooden it's worth checking out the
wick Studio Pantone collaboration which
really had some nice colors and assets
that anyone can utilize if they're
trying to build up a new website or
theme or even just test out their design
skills I'm also seeing a lot more bright
and vibrant colors mixed with more
neutral colors that encourage a user to
view the most important element on the
screen and that usually is the most
vibrant piece of color that you can see
other times I see websites that aren't
afraid of using a lot of colors to
express themselves to and this isn't
limited to just websites a lot of the
app designs I'm seeing this year and on
dribble also have a good splash of color
that is definitely a creative choice
that I don't mind seeing because it
makes each app look unique interesting
and fun number 13 is brutalism or brutal
design and while it's not my personal
favorite it is one that seems to be
adopted with this new generation of
Graphics designers brutalism is the type
of design that doesn't make any excuses
it doesn't follow the rules but it's
also loud and unique in the sense that
it can be overwhelmingly large in its
text or button design it sometimes
reminds me of anti-d design and while
I'm sure it works with the newer and
younger generation of web designers it
doesn't really appeal to me as much as a
person who's a bit older and I just feel
a little bit overwhelmed when it's very
loud and in my face number 14 is micro
interactions and while they personally
might seem small and insignificant they
definitely play a part in how I feel
when I get a new subscriber or if I add
something to my cart and check it out
and great examples of micro interactions
can be found all over the Place such as
in a button like this to this type of
hover glow that you can get on UI
components or buttons as well or even a
subtle animation when you are logging in
or transitioning from one page to
another it can include these subtle
animations whenever you click an app
icon or a toast component that expands
out from its original UI component back
into its original state I always enjoy
seeing the creative ways that people
create micro interactions to replace
common components and their
functionality number 15 is one of my
favorites it's wh space or negative
space because you don't want a website
to look cluttered and overwhelming just
like in this video I try to keep it
clean around my area while it's a little
bit more busy around the sides good use
of whites space doesn't mean having
empty space throughout your website it
just means that the space utilize helps
the user focus in on the primary content
which is usually at the center of the
screen good use of negative space Also
allows for other elements to be on the
page but a user will be drawn to the
centered element and while some examples
of negative space just means padding out
a lot of the content so it has room to
breathe it can also mean just having
lots of white space in and around a page
so that the main product or service gets
to stand out more than any of the other
content 16 is grid design because of the
fact that CSS makes grids so much easier
now we're seeing a lot more grids being
added to web designs and grid designs
don't always have to be complicated like
this example here from Urban Outfitters
where grids are being being used in
different column and row arrangements to
display a lot of information in a nice
and organized manner grid design can
sometimes look a little bit like Bento
UI and you can also Nest grids inside of
grids good use of them let you span
different images across rows and columns
like this example in this housing
website or help you organize the global
sections of your website in a neat
fashion that can also be responsive when
you shrink down to the mobile viewport
the other implementation of grids I see
often is in admin panels where it's a
lot easier to organize different things
on a dashboard where you can have UI
grids now help you display the
information in neat and organized ways
17 is 3D 3D elements interactive 3D 3D
websites in general 3D has grown a lot
due to the bandwidth that we have now on
the internet and things like spline
design we're seeing a lot more websites
Implement 3D in headers into feature
sections and even as entire websites as
a whole here's a pretty simple yet
elegant design from Atmos which
incorporates a little bit of 3D as you
scroll through the page and it doesn't
use too many elements or colors just
enough to keep you engaged while reading
the text sometimes good use of 3D just
means using a small 3D floating element
on the page another example could be
having a 3D object or asset as part of a
shopping experience so that the
e-commerce product you're trying to sell
to people has a more appealing look and
feel especially when you're trying to
customize it I definitely like this one
here for this motorbike brand from savic
which did a really good job at this and
one of my favorite executions of this
was from why Ryan hates Mondays I
originally thought this was a 2d website
until their prospective tilted and this
3D character came alive which I could
control it had this experimental type of
navigation where rather than clicking
onto different pages I just simply ran
to them and they opened up into these 3D
assets that interacted with me I can
only imagine what the websites of this
year might look like once people better
understand how to use things like spline
design to create interesting experiences
just like this number 18 is blending
images with Graphics elements whether
it's a color and a picture or even maybe
an illustration with some Strokes or
text there are some really interesting
and unique ways that you can combine
these things to make a website look
quite special such as this creative
Japanese example over here where this
character turns into a Samurai with some
text in the background as we scroll down
good execution of this design Trend
sometimes means simply adding text into
the background of an image that feels
authentic IC and like it's meant to be
there because it's cut out with the
buildings in the foreground
alternatively you can have Silhouettes
where the text is in the background or
even clipping through the image to
present it in Dynamic ways number 19 is
dark mode and light mode because
websites now build in both Tailwind CSS
makes this very easy and often our
website will automatically adhere to the
device specifications of whether you're
running a dark or a light theme web
design should look good both in dark and
light versions and with good color
Harmony and contrast this shouldn't be
such a difficult task here's a few
examples of websites that have both a
dark and light mode and still work great
in both I particularly like this design
from dwak which is one that takes you
through this hotel and the light and
dark mode is done in such a way as to
create a completely different website
once you switch so here it looks like a
regular hotel with staff and management
but once Night hits and we have the
darker version we now have a completely
different scene with things like zombies
in the background and haunted rooms
which you definitely don't want to enter
light and dark mode shouldn't be about
just high contrast but also adapting the
colors you already have in your design
and repurposing them so that they can
work at nighttime when people actually
shouldn't be staring at things that are
too bright number 20 is text or text
only design and it's when you don't
reinvent the wheel or overdo Your Design
you simply State what your website is
about and that's enough this portfolio
for from Sam is a great example where
he's incentivizing people to scroll over
the text in order to learn a little bit
more about the projects he's done and
the Ws he's received or this example
from Vishnu who's created a portfolio
where a lot of Whit space is used in
very subtle animation here at the very
bottom and all of this incentivizes you
to actually read the content rather than
just browse some pictures or imagery
text only design doesn't mean taking
weight imagery or animation it just
means that the text is the most
prominent thing on the website therefore
worth reading
if you guys enjoyed this video and you
want to learn a little bit more about
design or creating your own websites
join my community on there I've got a
number of courses to help you learn how
to do design or build websites with no
code and Ai and these are entirely free
you'll get to learn how to use the
latest platforms to create things like
sit Maps built on top of wig studio and
much more hope you enjoyed this and I'll
see you in the next one